---
author: Chris Tham
title: Trivia and Buffet Dinner Fundraiser for Afghan Women
publishDate: 2023-03-10T21:00:00+10:00
description: Afghan buffet dinner at Alexandria Town Hall
images:
  - ../images/blog/Trivia and Buffet Fundraiser for Afghan Women (5).jpeg
  - ../images/blog/Alexandria Town Hall.jpeg
  - ../images/blog/Trivia and Buffet Fundraiser for Afghan Women (6).jpeg
categories: [Food,Event]
tags:
  - Afghan
  - dinner
  - trivia
  - fundraising
---

Trivia and Buffet Dinner Fundraiser for Afghan Women at Alexandria Town Hall, 73 Garden Street organised by Welcome Merchant.

The trivia was hosted by the hilarious Jennifer Wong (ABC's Chopsticks or Fork show) and was also a celebration of International Women's Day.

Welcome Merchant is a social enterprise that provides a free online directory and digital marketing support to entrepreneurs  who identify as a refugee and as a person seeking asylum. They are donating a portion of the ticket sales to Mahboba's Promise, an Afghan-founded charity based in Sydney. It was founded by Mahboba Rawi, an Afghan refugee and now an Australian citizen, who has experienced first-hand the effects of a country torn apart by years of war and civil unrest. Since 1998, Mahboba’s Promise has established schools, shelters and health clinics across Afghanistan and provided numerous sponsorships to widows and orphans in need.

Someone recognised me and said that I am "Facebook Famous" - apparently she has seen my posts on Malaysian Food Lovers Sydney.

So it would seem in the 19th century, you are famous by birth and lineage, and in the 20th century you are famous by what you do or your looks. In the 21st century, I can be "famous" just by eating a lot and posting incessantly on social media.

Anyway, the food was good, and the trivia questions were enjoyable.

<iframe src="https://www.facebook.com/plugins/post.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fchris1.tham%2Fposts%2Fpfbid027SYwcm3YL9X92vNSToYNNNEXPvhuVDGsWdbX8F9gsYVzvzZvYYKMfBAajQ2UpUgl&show_text=true&width=500" width="500" height="748" style="border:none;overflow:hidden" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture; web-share"></iframe>
