---
title: Two Dreams
description: Road trip, and back to school
author: christie
publishDate: 2023-01-11T00:00:00.000Z
categories:
  - dream
tags:
  - road trip
  - lunch
  - restaurant
  - covid
  - school
  - cooking
---

Two dreams.

First was a family road trip. We are travelling in a big van, plus towing a boat behind us. We are on an elevated road - it's quite high up, higher than even surrounding tall buildings. It's literally a highway in the sky. I wondered at how much it would have cost to build this road.

We decided to stop over for lunch, so exited the highway. The descent was quite steep - I worried about the boat behind us. We stopped near the coast. I was quite chuffed to find the only parking spot big enough for the vehicle and the boat. It is at the end of the road facing the sea.

We entered a fancy restaurant. There isn't enough room on a table to sit all of us, so I wandered off to find another spot. I asked three handsome Indian guys if they minded me sharing a table with them. They smirked. I think they were hoping I would strike a conversation with them, but I was really sleepy from all the driving.

I think I might have dozed off. The restaurant suspected I might have Covid, and apparently did a Covid test whilst I was asleep. I tested negative. I woke up, and realised that the restaurant was an all you can eat buffet serving Indian food. I wasn't very happy, because I am not that hungry and would have struggled to eat my fair share.

Second dream. I am back in school. Caught the bus, and forgot I had a bus pass and paid full fare cash. There was some confusion about which bus I should catch but I think I caught the right one. Anyway, I arrived at school safely.

A teacher reminded me that apparently I had been foolish enough to sign up for a cooking competition, and the dish I had nominated to cook was hainan chicken rice.
We discussed what my winning strategy was. I said I don't think I can cook the most authentic version of the dish, neither can I win by presentation, so I have to win by the most flavoursome dish which is going to be challenging.
