---
title: Dream
description: Police offer
pubDate: 2022-12-02T00:00:00.000Z
categories:
  - dream
tags:
  - police officer
  - arrest
---

My dream today: I am a police officer, and my job today is to escort a prisoner from a prison cell to interrogation in a hotel room in the city, and back again.

I picked up the prisoner from a prison located on the outskirts of the city. He was a big man, but with a friendly, innocent face. He reminded me a lot of Andy Dufresne from Shawshank Redemption. I was instantly attracted to him.

During the interrogation, they showed him a map of the city, and asked him which route he would take to go from point A to point B, which turnings, which roundabouts, etc.

His answers surprised them, given the facial expressions of the interrogators. I became convinced that whatever he was incarcerated for, he was innocent.

On the way back, he said he needed to go to a toilet. I took him to the nearest men's, which is accessible via a fancy bar. I waited outside the bar.

Whilst he was in, I realised the toilet had a separate exit straight onto the street. I started panicking that he would escape, but then I had a big sigh of relief when he emerged back into my custody.

As we walked, I explained the situation with the alternate exit and I said I wouldn't have been able to follow him if he escaped because I can't chase him through the men's toilet.

We continued for a little while, then, suddenly, he made a run for it, back to the toilets. I gave chase, and shouted "Stop that man!"

Two passer-bys shouldered him and he fell heavily onto the floor. I pinned him to the ground and handcuffed him.
